So we need to create a mega menu like this one. So let's go to the menus page in the admin. And the structure
we need to follow in order to create a mega menu will be as posts. Let's add some pages first.
So I'm gonna add some stuff to fill our menus.
So all I have to do is  for example this page, "Sample Page" to be a mega menu.
So in order to do that we create for example, four submenus.
One, two, three and four.
And each one of these submenus will be a column in the mega menu. And the label of each one will be the title
of the column of the mega menu.
So let's go back here.
And for this one you can imagine the "Blog" as the "Sample Page" and "Mega Title", "Mega Title", Mega Title"
and so on is "Page A", Page B", "Blog" and "Front Page".
So these will be the titles and submenus for these titles will be these pages.
So let's add some.
And let's get one from here.
And save. So right now what we've done is it's just creating a normal menu.
So now we have another normal menu like this one with multiple submenus.
In the Admin page
there is a sort of a hidden feature. If you click on "Screen Options" toggle here and enable CSS classes.
This would allow you to add custom CSS classes for each menu item.
We now have this field. So we can add class called "mega" and another class to choose the number of columns.
So we created four menus. So let's choose "cols-4".
And in my CSS I styled  menus that has the "mega" and "cols" class differently
in order to mega menu. So let's save now
and fresh.
And now we have a mega menu. And it's all about the styling here.
Let's add class "open" for this menu.
So this menu item as you can see will have the class "mega" and class "cols-4".
And these are arbitrary class names that I choose.
And now let's take a look at the submenu. And let's take a look at the styles.
Now as you can see if the menu item has a class "mega" I styled the submenu differently.
So it now takes the full width and also "display : flex" instead of "block" in order to create these columns.
And for submenus
I will have a width of 25% because it's four columns.
So if you have a class "mega" and class "cols-4" we will give it a width of 25.
And if "cols-3" then three columns then 33.33%.
So let's try and do this. Let's
change the "cols-4" for into 3 columns.
And in my CSS I style the 3 columns differently.
So if we take a look now. The three columns
And the other one collapsed in a new row.
So as I mentioned this, it's whole about the styling.
And as you know this is not what this course is about.
I'm pretty sure you can
you can change the style of the menu as you like using these classes. Or any classes that you will instruct
your users to add here.
So you can take a look at in header.scss. And this is my CSS.
You can take a look at it if you want.
And so here is the styling of menu item
if it does not have a class "mega". So "not(.mega)".
And here is the one with a class "mega".
So you know different styling and then we have a loop for the number of columns from 1 to 6 and stuff
like that.
So I don't want to get much deeper into the CSS stuff.
I'm pretty sure you can do this yourself.
So this is the easiest way to create mega menus.
I know it might not be the most user friendly as you should type some stuff here.
Maybe in the advanced sections at the end of this course we'll try to explore a better way to do it.
But for now I think this is perfectly fine.
Just start working in the accessibility bit in the next lectures.